Fantastic work so far!
Let's move on to the next step in the process.
Let's reflect on the work you've done so far.
Not only have you been able to access and combine data from multiple sources, but you have also completed several
transformation and cleaning steps to
prepare your data for analysis and set up the required relationships in your data model.
In this chapter, we will be working on a few DAX calculations.
To summarise.
Calculated columns evaluate each row.
It adds a new column to an existing table and is calculated at data load or when the data is refreshed.
As you can see in the example, a TotalYTD() function is used for
aggregating the year-to-date sales value of the expression in the current context.
Whereas measures aggregate multiple rows.
Results in another field can be added to your visualization
and are calculated at query time as you interact and filter.
As you can see in the example, Profit is calculated by
subtracting the cost from the sales against each row of the column.
It would help if you had the scope and goal clear on what you need to achieve by the end of this chapter.
Therefore it's important to know what business questions you will try to uncover in this chapter.
We would like to know: Who are the top competitors by revenue?
What are the best performing segments and products?
What does our growth look like over time?
How are we performing compared to the previous year's performance?
We may also uncover other interesting insights along the way.
Great work so far, let's jump into our analysis and data exploration.
Have fun!